                                                                 Getting Started



         "It is common sense to take a method and try it. If it fails, admit it
         frankly and try another. But above all, try something."

                                                           Franklin D. Roosevelt



Installing the Toolkit
         The Toolkit is available in a variety of disk densities and sizes. This
         section assumes that you are installing the software from a two disk
         set. If you are using a single disk set, simply assume that all the
         files are contained on a single disk and ignore the instructions for
         inserting the second disk.

         The program disk includes an installation program INSTALL.EXE. This
         program can be used to automatically install the software onto your
         hard disk. It will prompt you to enter the appropriate source and tar-
         get directories, and will not modify your CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT
         files. Alternatively, you may install the Toolkit manually. Please note
         that the files are stored on disk in compressed form, and must be
         uncompressed (decompressed?) before they can be used.


Using INSTALL.EXE
         The Install program will transfer the Toolkit files from the diskettes
         to a specified hard drive. To run the install program, insert the
         Source Disk in drive A (or another floppy drive) and then:

         q    Type the command: A:INSTALL [KEYCAP].
         q    Press [KEYCAP] at the installation screen.

         q    Follow the prompts.
         It is recommended that you install the source files in a sub-directory
         TOT beneath the main Turbo Pascal directory. Similarly, the demo files
         should be installed in a TOTDEM subdirectory.

         During the installation process, files will be copied from the Toolkit
         disks to your hard drive. The files will then be compressed. Once the
         files have been installed, the Installation program will ask if you
         want to view the README file. This file contains last-minute details
         about the Toolkit. A following section describes how to view the README
         file after installation.
         If the installation is not successful, follow the manual installation
         method described in the next section.


2-2                                                                 User's Guide
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Manual Installation

         The disks contain the following files:
         INSTALL.EXE     the Toolkit Installation program

         SOURCE.EXE      a self-extracting file which contains the .PAS source
                         files for the Toolkit units
         DEMO.EXE        a self-extracting file which contains the .PAS demon-
                         stration files, which illustrate how to use the Toolkit

         DOCS.EXE        a self-extracting file containing all this documenta-
                         tion in ASCII form
         README.COM      a self-displaying text file which lists all the last-
                         minute changes and enhancements

         REGISTER.EXE    a self-extracting file which contains all the ShareWare
                         information and instructions


         We recommend that the source files are installed in a separate sub-
         directory "underneath" the compiler directory. For example, if your
         compiler is stored in the directory C:\TP, then create a directory
         C:\TP\TOT. You can insert the source disk in the A drive and install
         the source files as follows:
                  C: [KEYCAP]
                  MD\TP\TOT [KEYCAP]
                  CD\TP\TOT [KEYCAP]
                  A:SOURCE [KEYCAP]


         The SOURCE.EXE program will then place all the source code files in the
         newly created directory. The README.COM file should also be copied to
         the TOT sub-directory.

                  COPY A:README.COM [KEYCAP]


         Although not essential, the demonstration files are referred to
         throughout the documentation and it is recommended that you do install
         them. Furthermore, it is recommended that you install them in a sepa-
         rate subdirectory as follows:
                  C: [KEYCAP]
                  MD\TP\TOTDEMO [KEYCAP]
                  CD\TP\TOTDEMO [KEYCAP]
                  A:DEMO [KEYCAP]




Getting Started                                                              2-3
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

         You do not need to install the DOCS.EXE and REGISTER.EXE files, since
         you are a registered user and you are reading the documentation. These
         files are included so that you may give an evaluation copy of the
         Toolkit to a colleague who may try the software. Refer to the License
         Agreement for further information.

The Toolkit Files
         Listed below are the source files that have been installed on your hard
         disk:

         TOTFLAGS.INC    contains global compiler directives
         TOTLOOK.PAS     controls the overall look and feel of your programs

         TOTREAL.PAS     provides numeric co-processor support and supports
                         extended reals
         TOTSYS.PAS      contains objects for ascertaining hardware and operat-
                         ing system configurations

         TOTINPUT.PAS    provides mouse and keyboard support
         TOTFAST.PAS     supports writing to physical and virtual screens

         TOTWIN.PAS      contains a variety of window objects
         TOTMSG.PAS      provides objects for displaying messages and prompts in
                         Pop-up windows

         TOTLINK.PAS     includes a variety of objects for managing linked lists
         TOTLIST.PAS     provides objects for displaying string arrays or linked
                         lists in a window

         TOTDIR.PAS      includes a directory display object
         TOTIO1,2,3.PAS  three units for building full screen input

         TOTMENU.PAS     includes routines for building pop-up and pull-down
                         menus
         TOTSTR.PAS      contains a host of string manipulation functions

         TOTDATE.PAS     includes a set of functions for managing Julian and
                         Gregorian dates
         TOTMISC.PAS     provides a potpourri of procedures and functions

         TOTBUILD.PAS    used to re-build all the TOT TPUs


         In addition to the source code files, there are a host of demonstration
         files. All the demonstration filenames begin with DEM. The files which
         demonstrate how to extend the Toolkit begin with EXT. The major demon-

2-4                                                                 User's Guide
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

         stration file is DEMTOT.PAS. All the other files are designed to be
         small and concise illustrations of how to get the most from the
         Toolkit.



The README File
         The file README.COM is actually a self-displaying text file which con-
         tains any last-minute changes or additions to the documentation. To
         view the contents of the README file, simply change the default
         directory to the TOT source and execute README, e.g.

                  CD\TP\TOT [KEYCAP]
                  README [KEYCAP]


Configuring Turbo Pascal

         Having installed the Toolkit, you must configure Turbo Pascal so the
         compiler knows where to locate the Toolkit files. Configure the inte-
         grated environment as follows:
         q    Execute the IDE by changing the default directory to the main
              Turbo Pascal directory, and enter TURBO.

         q    Select the Directories item from the Options menu. The Directories
              dialog box will then be displayed. Fig 2.1 illustrates the Pascal
              6.0 dialog box.
         q    You must now add the C:\TURBO\TOT directory (or whichever direc-
              tory you have chosen for the Toolkit) to the Unit, Include and
              Object input fields. If an entry already exists in the field,
              press the right cursor and add a semi-colon before entering the
              Toolkit directory. Note: do not have more than one directory in
              the EXE/TPU input field - this must be a single directory identi-
              fying where the compiler should locate compiled files.

         q    Save the options by selecting Save from the Options menu.


Figure 2.1                                                              [SCREEN]
Configuring the IDE


         If you are using the command line version of the compiler, i.e. TPC.EXE
         or TPCX.EXE, then you must add the Toolkit directory to the Unit,
         Include and Source parameters in the TPC(X).CFG file. Listed below is
         an example of a TPC.CFG file:



Getting Started                                                              2-5
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

               /L
               /M
               /IC:\TURBO\TOT;C:\TURBO\MISC
               /UC:\TURBO\TOT
               /OC:\TURBO\TOT
               /EC:\TURBO\MYPROGS


         Turbo Pascal 5.5 users can use the TPCONFIG.EXE program to create a
         TPC.CFG file from the IDE settings, and vice verse.
         For further configuration information refer to the Turbo Pascal User's
         Guide.



Unit Summary
         Listed below is a description of the features in each of the major
         units:


         totLOOK    This unit is designed to help you control the look and feel
                    of large programs. A global object, LOOKTOT, defines the
                    default colors to be used when displaying windows, menus and
                    lists.

         totREAL    This small unit controls the REAL type. Unless the compiler
                    directive FLOAT is specified (in the TOTFLAGS.INC file -
                    discussed later), the types SINGLE, DOUBLE, EXTENDED and
                    COMP are type cast to the base type REAL.
         totSYS     This unit provides four objects which can be used to deter-
                    mine the hardware and operating system configurations of the
                    PC on which your programs are running. The DisplayOBJ object
                    provides information about the display: whether it is color
                    or monochrome, what is the width and depth of the screen,
                    and the object includes methods for setting the screen into
                    and out of condensed mode, i.e. 43 or 50 line mode. The
                    EquipOBJ object provides information about the PC peripheral
                    devices, e.g. how many serial and parallel ports there are,
                    if a math chip is present, how many floppy drives, etc. The
                    MemOBJ object provides information about base memory, as
                    well as extended and expanded memory. The OSOBJ provides
                    information about the operating system, e.g. the DOS version
                    number, the country configuration, and the characters used
                    for currency, date and time separators.



2-6                                                                 User's Guide
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

         totINPUT   The two main objects in this unit, MouseOBJ and KeyOBJ, are
                    used to detect and control mouse and keyboard activity. The
                    MouseOBJ detects if a mouse is present and includes a
                    variety of methods for controlling the mouse shape and
                    location. The KeyOBJ is the primary input object and detects
                    both keyboard and mouse button activity. There are methods
                    to get and set the status of the Caps Lock, Num Lock and
                    Scroll Lock keys, as well as routines to stuff or erase
                    characters with a special keyboard type-ahead buffer.

         totFAST    The totFAST unit provides the main screen writing primi-
                    tives, and contains four main objects: WriteOBJ, ScreenOBJ,
                    ScrollOBJ and ShadowOBJ. The WriteOBJ object controls the
                    screen writing techniques used throughout the Toolkit. If
                    you do not want to use the Toolkit screen writing algo-
                    rithms, you can create a descendent object and substitute
                    any of the WriteOBJ methods. The ScreenOBJ object contains
                    all the methods for writing formatted data to the screen.
                    There are routines to write text to any location on the
                    screen with right, left or center justification. As well as
                    routines for drawing boxes and lines which automatically use
                    line joining characters if they cross over another line.
                    ScreenOBJ also supports virtual screens which can be slid or
                    popped onto the visible screen at any time. Virtual screens
                    can either be copied from the visible screen or created from
                    scratch. The ScrollOBJ object controls the look and feel of
                    the scroll bars used throughout the Toolkit. The ShadowOBJ
                    controls the look and feel of the shadows used throughout
                    the system. Shadows may be set up or down, right or left,
                    and the depth and color of the shadow can be defined.
         totWIN     This unit provides a variety of window objects for writing
                    text in a window. The primary object is WinOBJ, which
                    provides the methods for popping a window onto the display.
                    You can specify the window attributes such as display
                    colors, size and title. When a window is activated, the
                    Toolkit automatically restricts screen writing to within the
                    window area. When the window is removed, the original screen
                    contents are restored and the cursor is repositioned in its
                    original position. The MoveWinOBJ offers all the features of
                    the WinOBJ, but the user can drag or move the window around
                    the screen. The ScrollWinOBJ is a moveable window object
                    that optionally supports horizontal and vertical scroll
                    bars. Finally, the StretchWinOBJ is a moveable, scrollable
                    window that allows the user to stretch the window into
                    different shapes by dragging the lower-right window corner.

         totMSG     The totMSG unit provides a suite of objects for displaying
                    pop-up messages to the user. In the next section, this unit
                    forms part of a demonstration on how to use the Toolkit.


Getting Started                                                              2-7
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

         totLINK    One of the least understood elements of contemporary pro-
                    gramming techniques is the creation and maintenance of
                    linked lists. This unit provides a number of objects for
                    building doubly-linked lists. Linked lists allow you to
                    create lists of variable size, unlike arrays where you have
                    to specify the total size of the array at compile time.
                    Linked lists are ideal for reading directories, text files
                    or database records. The linked list engine provides rou-
                    tines for adding, deleting and moving entries in the list,
                    as well as automatic sorting.

         totLIST    This unit provides the ListOBJ for displaying arrays or
                    linked lists in a stretchable window. List objects can be
                    used to display text files, data base records, or any list
                    in a window. Lists can be displayed in multiple columns, and
                    the user may optionally select one or more items from the
                    list.
         totDIR     Most programs require the user to select a filename. The
                    DirOBJ provides a very quick and convenient way of display-
                    ing a dialog box from which the user can choose a file, or
                    enter a new filename.

         totIO1     The most used element of TechnoJock's Turbo Toolkit was the
                    screen IO, i.e. the full screen input routines. The Object
                    Toolkit dedicates three units to full screen input objects.
                    The totIO1 unit provides objects for defining hotkeys,
                    buttons, 3D buttons, check boxes and radio buttons, as well
                    as the IO event manager ActionOBJ.
         totIO2     totIO2 provides objects for string input (including lateral
                    scrolling), integer/real/date/hex input with automatic input
                    and range validation, formatted string input for telephone
                    number input and the like, and a list unit for displaying a
                    scrollable list as an input field.

         totIO3     totIO3 provides objects for creating memo fields, i.e.
                    multi-line fields that provide full word wrapping. Either a
                    linked list or an array can be assigned to the memo field.
         totMENU    The totMENU unit provides objects for displaying full-screen
                    menus, as well as multilevel pull-down menus.

         totSTR     The totSTR unit provides a wealth of routines for formatting
                    and converting strings. There are routines to convert inte-
                    gers, reals and HEX to string and vice verse. There are also
                    routines to truncate and extend strings, delete characters
                    from strings, count words, adjust case, etc.



2-8                                                                 User's Guide
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

         totDATE    Date manipulation is a snap with the totDATE unit. This unit
                    provides a set of functions for converting to and from
                    Julian dates. The unit supports eight (count 'em) different
                    date formats for national and international use.

         totMISC    This unit contains a potpourri of procedures and functions
                    that didn't fit anywhere else in the Toolkit. There are
                    routines for validating filenames, checking the status of
                    the printer, copying files, range checking integers, and
                    more.


Compiling the Demo Programs - A Quick Start

         Enough is enough. You must want to try it by now. If you have not yet
         installed the Toolkit or configured Turbo Pascal, do so now. Full
         instructions were provided earlier in this chapter.
         Start the IDE and use the File Change Dir option to change the working
         directory to C:\TURBO\TOTDEMO (or wherever you installed the demo
         files). Choose File Open and load the file DEMMS1.PAS. This filename is
         an abbreviation of DEMO-MESSAGE-ONE, the first demo of the totMSG unit.

         Listed below are the file contents:


         program DemoMessage1;
         {demms1}
         Uses DOS, CRT,
              totFAST, totMSG;

         Var  MsgWin : MessageOBJ;
         begin
            Screen.Clear(white,'°'); {paint the screen}
            with MsgWin do
            begin
               Init(1,' Message ');
               AddLine('');
               AddLine('The message unit provides a');
               AddLine('very easy way of displaying');
               AddLine('pop-up messages in a move-');
               AddLine('able window.');
               AddLine('');
               Show;
               Done;
            end;
         end.



Getting Started                                                              2-9
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

         The demo program uses methods from the totFAST and totMSG units, so
         they are included in the Uses statement. The VAR statement declares an
         object variable called MsgWin which is of type MessageOBJ. This is the
         main object used for displaying messages.

         The first statement of the program:
                  Screen.Clear(white,'°');

         calls the Clear method (or procedure in the old terminology) from the
         Screen object. Screen is a globally declared object in the totFAST unit
         and controls the writing to the screen. The Clear method is used to
         clear the screen, and the two parameters identify the display color and
         the character used to fill the screen.
         The remaining statements all affect the MsgWin object, so to abbreviate
         the code, the "with var do" shortcut is used. Every Toolkit object must
         be initialized before the object methods can be called, and this is
         always achieved with the INIT statement. In the case of MessageOBJ
         objects, INIT must be passed two parameters: the first indicates the
         window border style (1 for a single line box), and the second the
         window title. The AddLine method is called multiple times to add the
         message text. The Show method is then called to instruct the Toolkit to
         display the message. Finally, when the user has removed the message,
         the WinOBJ is disposed of by calling the DONE method (known as a
         destructor). That's all there is to it.

         Select Run Run (or press [KEYCAP]) to execute the demo program. Fig 2.2
         illustrates the screen that should be displayed. (If the program did
         not run successfully, refer to the next section for the probable
         cause.)
         The message window can be dragged around the screen using the Mouse by
         moving the mouse cursor to the top of the window, and holding down the
         left mouse button. While the button remains depressed the window can be
         dragged around the screen. Using the keyboard, the window can be moved
         by pressing the [KEYCAP] key and then using the cursor keys. The move
         is terminated when [KEYCAP] is pressed.

         The message can be removed by clicking the left mouse button on the
         close icon [þ] at the top left of the window, by clicking the left
         mouse button on the OK hot spot, or by pressing [KEYCAP] or [KEYCAP].


Figure 2.2                                                              [SCREEN]
The Message Demo
Program



2-10                                                                User's Guide
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Common Problems

         Listed below are a few of the common problems that occur when you first
         try to run the demo programs, together with some quick remedies.



         Error 15: File not found (TOTFAST.TPU)
         This error is generated when the compiler cannot find the TPU file or
         the associated PAS file. The most likely cause is that you have not
         correctly entered the Toolkit path in the Options Directories Unit
         Directories dialog box. Correct the path and try again.


         Error 15: File not found (TOTFLAGS.INC)
         Make sure that you have correctly added the Toolkit directory to the
         Options Directories Include Files dialog box.


         Error 15: File not found (TOTFAST.OBJ)
         Make sure that you have correctly added the Toolkit directory to the
         Options Directories Object Files dialog box.


         Error 1: Out of memory
         Turbo Pascal lacks sufficient room to compile, link, and execute your
         program. The first obvious step is to remove any unnecessary memory
         resident programs, not forgetting items in CONFIG.SYS like BUFFERS and
         ANSI.SYS. A number of IDE settings influence the amount of memory
         required to run a program. The following actions will minimize the
         memory consumed:

         q     Set the Compile Destination to disk.
         q     Set the Options Linker to disk.

         q     Set the Options Linker mapfile to off.
         q     Set the Options Debugger so that both stand-alone and integrated
               options are not selected.

         q     Edit the TOTFLAGS.INC file and enable the FINAL directive (dis-
               cussed in the next chapter).
         q     If the file you are editing is large, switch to a smaller file,
               and specify the program filename in the Compiler Primary file
               field.

         q     If you are using Turbo Pascal version 6, there are a number of
               other ways to save memory, particularly if you have expanded
               memory. Refer to page 147 of the 6.0 User's Guide for further
               information.


Getting Started                                                             2-11
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

         If there is still insufficient memory, remove any unnecessary memory
         resident programs from memory and try again. If you can compile the
         program, but not run it, drop to DOS and execute the program from the
         command line. If all else fails, use the command line version of Turbo
         (TPC or TPCX) to compile the program. Note that all the demo programs
         included in the Toolkit will run from the integrated environment on a
         640k machine when compiled in the FINAL state.



         Error 72: Unit file format error (...)

         This problem usually occurs when you switch from one version of Turbo
         Pascal to another - TPUs created with one version of Pascal cannot be
         used by another version. The solution is to select Compile Build and
         force the compiler to recreate the TPU files.
